An Aspirational Prayer to Behold the Beautiful Face of Khecharī
by Tsarchen Losal Gyatso

Namo Vajra Chandaliye!
tayé gyalwé detong dögar ni
From the dance of bliss-emptiness of limitless conquerors,
sishyi miktrul chiryang charwa lé
Appearing as so many visual illusions of saṃsāra-nirvāṇa;
dengdir khachö palmo yi ong ma
Henceforth, now, glorious Khecharī, Attractive One,
nying né dren no khyüpé tsé gé kyong
With my heartfelt recollection, protect with a joyful loving embrace.

womin shying na lhenkyé gyalyum ma
In Akaniṣṭha is the innate Mother of the conquerors,
nyershyi yul na shyingkyong daki ma
At the twenty-four places — the realm born ḍākinīs,
nordzin khyabpé karma mu tra ma
Pervasive wealth-holders — karmamudrās;
naljor dak gi kyab chok jetsünma
Holy One, be the Refuge Lord of me the yogi.

khyö ni semnyi tongpé rang tsal té
You are the manifestation of my own mind of emptiness,
dorjé drong na é ying bam gyi ngö
The actual VAṂ in the E space of the vajra city;
gyumé ling na jikrung sinmo dang
As a frightful rakṣasī of the island of illusion and
dzum kar yowé langtso sarpa tön
A bright smiling youth — clearly revealed.

dak gi jitar tsal yang pakma khyö
I, not having found anything determined to be
denpar drubpé ngepa ma nyé né
Truly established, although searching, however much;
tröpé dubpé semnyi shyönnu dé
The mind of that person wearied by elaborations,
jödral nak kyi khang bur ngalso ten
Takes rest in the forest shelter free of expression.

ema dani daki ying né shyeng
Ema! Now Ḍākinī, arise from space; from the Śrī Heruka,
heruka pal gyü kyi gyalpo lé
King of Tantras, protect by the truth of the saying;
dorjé tsünmo nyewé nyingpo chok
Accomplishment is through reciting the excellent
lakpé drub ché sungpé denpé kyong
Near-essence mantra of the Vajra Queen.

o di bishé wé té naktrö du
In a secluded forest of Oḍḍiyāna,
drubpé wangchuk dorjé drilbu ba
After protecting the lord of siddhas, Vajra Ghaṇṭapa;
khyü dang tsumbhé dewé jé kyang té
With the bliss of an embrace and kiss,
khajor chok gi rol shying dak kyang kyong
[You] led to the realm of Khechara; likewise also protect me.

ganggé ling du jetsün kusali
From an island in the Ganga, the holy Kushali
ngönsum namkhé ying su tripa dang
Was actually led to the expanse of space,
palden na ro tapa jezung tar
And after, glorious Nāropa was taken; likewise,
dak kyang khachö gewé drong du tri
Lead me also to Khechara, the city of Joyful Ones.

tsa gyü lama chok gi tukjé dang
Through the compassion of the root and lineage [gurus] and the
gyü chen sang té nyurlam zab khyé dang
Superior swift path of the profound, ultimate secret, great Tantra;
naljor dak gi lhaksam depé tü
With the power of a pure unusual attitude, may I the yogi,
khachö ga mé dzum shyal nyur tong shok
Quickly see the smiling face of the Joyful One, Khecharī.

Written spontaneously by Tsarchen Vajradhara.

| Translated by Jeff Watt, 1998.