Harmonious Clouds of Sublime and Lasting Bliss
A Vajra Song for the Tsok Feast Offering to Venerable and Exalted Vajrayoginī
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

ösal namkün chokden yeshe kyi rolmo
As the play of clear light, primordial wisdom endowed with the supreme of all skilful means,
zungjuk dangmé zukkur ngönsum du sharwa
Their union appears before us in the subtle rūpakāya form,
drenpé nying gi dung sel palden gyi lamé
Glorious guru, the very thought of whom dispels all anguish—
detong yeshe kyewar jin gyi rang lob shik
Grant your blessings so that the wisdom of bliss-emptiness dawns within my mind!

é ying shintu namdak trödral gyi neluk
É is all-pervading space, the natural state, utterly pure, beyond elaboration,
wam yik chudruk gawé tsenpé ru shyengpé
And the syllable vaṃ manifests as the signs and marks of sixteenfold joy—
lhenkyé kha la chöpa naljor gyi wang mö
Spontaneously-born,1 sky-faring Khecarī, Lady of Yoginīs,
lungsem umar timpé ngödrub shyik tsol dang
Grant me the siddhi of subtle energy-mind dissolving within the central channel!

yul chen nyishu tsa shyir rangshyin gyi nangwé
Naturally appearing in the twenty-four sacred places,
tabshé chakgyé zuk chang pawo dang khandrö
Taking the form of skilful means and wisdom mudrās, ḍākas and ḍākinīs,
shying kyé ponyé tsok kyi duwa la ten né
Pureland-born messengers—through your gathering for the tsok feast,
dechen nyam gyé gekpé kalzang la jor shyik
May I enjoy the fortunate enrapture of a hundred sensations of great bliss.

tongnyi kha la dripé tingdzin gyi nyamgyur
The expressions of your samādhi adorn the sky of emptiness,
ngotsar wangpö shyu shyin natsok su charwé
As amazing and as varied as a rainbow—the ‘bow of Indra’—
ngak kyé dorjé tsünmö samten gyi ga ma
Mantra-born yoginī, Vajra Queen, lady of samādhi’s joy,
chir nang dechen drenpé kyo drok la peb dang
Come now, as a consoling friend and consort to transform appearances into ecstasy supreme!

mejung dorjé tekpé lamzang gi tartuk
Here, at the zenith of the wondrous vajra vehicle’s sublime path,
naljor sang té dütsi gatön la chöpé
Through this practice of enjoying the feast of ultimate secret nectar,
tenyö tsul du sharwé tamal gyi ngö kün
May all ordinary appearances of the environment and beings
heruka pal drubpé mönlam shyik shyu’o
Be perfected as the glorious heruka—this aspiration, I offer!

This prayer by the wandering yogin of non-action, Mañjughoṣa, was made in response to the command
of the precious Jamgön Lama, the Lord of Speech, Jampa Phuntsok Pal Zangpo, whose vajra
words “Compose something along these lines!” I took as an offering upon the crown of my
head. Siddhirastu!

| Rigpa Translations, 2009. Edited and adapted for Lotsawa House, 2021.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. "tshogs glu bde chen rtag pa dam pa'i sprin gyi rol mo/ nA
ro mkha' spyod ma/" in gsung 'bum/_mkhyen brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok:
Gonpo Tseten, 1977–1980. Vol. 7: 462–463
↑ The text makes reference to the three kinds of yoginī or ḍākinī: 1) the spontaneously-born
(lhan skyes ma), who has realized primordial wisdom, 2) the pureland-born (zhing skyes ma)
from one of the twenty-four sacred places, and 3) the mantra-born (sngags skyes ma), who
understands the practices of the generation and completion phases, but has not yet fully
realized primordial wisdom.